Finally tonight, one of the
Israeli military's
biggest targets is a top
Hamas leader in Gaza
who's accused of being a mastermind
behind the October 7th assault.
Brian Todd takes a closer
look at his background.
I look around to
see who will get him out.
One of Israel's top targets,
the man they called the face of evil.
Yahya Sinwar,
Hamas's highest ranking
leader inside Gaza.
Top Israeli officials
have sounded very confident
in recent days
that they'll kill him,
saying their forces
have encircled his house
in southern Gaza.
According to Catherine,
his house is not his fortress
and he can escape.
But it's only a matter of time
until we get him.
Without elaborating,
Israeli officials
say they believe Sinwar is underground.
Such as the existence of the 61 year old
who's imprinted his hatred of Israel
into the identity of Hamas.
Analysts say as one of Hamas's
top masterminds
of the October 7th attacks.
Yes.
In order to Israel is what bin
is to the United States.
And like Americans went after bin
Laden and eventually got him.
I think the Israelis will do the same
and this war will not end
until they get sinwar.
Sinwar joined Hamas in his toes,
arrested by the Israelis
for the murders of two Israeli
soldiers and four Palestinians.
He spent 23 years in an Israeli prison.
Learned Hebrew.
And it was during that period
that the Israelis
actually saved his life.
A tumor was discovered in his head.
Israeli doctors operated on him,
took the tumor out, and he survived, said
Michael Kuby,
a former officer of Israel's Shin
Bet Security
Agency says
he interrogated Yahya Sinwar
for a total of about 180 hours.
Cube says he knows Sinwar
better than Sinwar,
his own mother,
and describes him
as the cruelest man he ever met.
Known to use a machete
to kill Palestinians
who were suspected of collaborating
with Israeli intelligence.
I asked him, You are now 2829
and how come he is not married?
How come he doesn't want a family?
So he told me the Hamas is my wife.
The Hamas is much child.
The Hamas for me is everything.
Sinwar was among more than a
thousand Palestinian prisoners
released in 2011
in exchange for captured Israeli soldier
Gilad Shalit.
Just last year,
he seemed to warn Israel what was coming.
We will come to you, God willing,
in a roaring flood.
We will come to you
with an endless number of rockets.
in a flood of soldiers without limit.
We will come to you
with millions of our nation.
Analysts say the man who survived
an Israeli assassination attempt
in 2021
won't be easy to kill this time either.
If there's someone who's
passing on information to the Israelis,
he knows who they are
and he takes them out
before the Israelis get to him.
Analyst Hussein Abdul Hussein says if
and when the Israelis eliminate
Yahya Sinwar,
it's unlikely
that whoever might try to fill
those shoes will be as brutal as Sinwar.
But even if it's someone more moderate,
he says, it really won't matter.
Given how determined that Israel
is to take out all of Hamas's leadership.